**Reading Response**
===================
*Material: chapter 6 from Digital Theatre by Nadja Masura*


Several of the readings we have discussed have provided some insights into the appropriate level of anthropomorphism in robotics which is indeed a critical concern in performing robots. We have seen theories claiming that human resemblance can be very effective in stimulating audience empathy, while some believe it can be a cumber since mimicking human-being is enormously costly and requires significant labor and technology. This week's reading, however, raised the interesting claim that robots that are designed to starkly contrast the humanistic movements also have their own expressive value. I began to wonder if the anthropomorphism of robots and the degree to which they make people feel attached can be systematically studied. How exactly should this degree be grasped, and how will the theatrical genre and target audience of the performance play a role? This article mentions that robots that behave opposite to humans are also performative for the reason that the audience is interested in the inherent dissimilarity between the functions of machine and human. I do agree with it and it reminds me of our previous in-class discussion on humans‘ tendency to sometimes intentionally obstruct robots - suddenly blocking their way, asking Siri incomprehensible questions, etc. I think this obstructive behavior is also motivated by the reason that humans are curious about the different natures between humans and machines. They satisfy their curiosity and test their suspicions by observing and interacting with the machine, in a theater, and in daily life.

Another claim I found very intriguing is that "the mechanical can serve as an insight into the flesh: how we live, how we function, how we react, and what we determine is essentially 'life' or alive". I have always been aware that robotics is an interdisciplinary field of study and practice, but it was the first time I realized that studying the robot mechanism also helps us understand human behavior itself. We need to be able to interpret the purpose of every action of robots and how it has reference to humans.
